<object data="../other-files/meeting-notes/2025-03-01-Wanderers-Weekly-Update.pdf" type="application/pdf" width="700px" height="700px">
    <embed src="../other-files/meeting-notes/2025-03-01-Wanderers-Weekly-Update.pdf">
        <p>This browser does not support PDFs. Please download the PDF to view it: <a href="../other-files/meeting-notes/2025-03-01-Wanderers-Weekly-Update.pdf">Download PDF</a>.</p>
    </embed>
</object>

# Notes
## == Summary and decisions ==
Discussion on our values and what sets us apart. (see slide)

Big shoutout to Wh4l3 for the work they have done this past week.

Tie breaker poll for name decision ⁠Wold's Vaults⁠Name ideas - List 

## == MVP Updates ==
Key forge demo - rift key forge shown with different materials and different rift tiers being able to be created from more “expensive” materials. Materials used determine the theme of the rift. New portal texture and it is very cool. 

Rift update - Portal room has 4 entrances/exits, performance side needs some work, rift level determines rift size, level 20 rift is bigger than the biggest vaults in VH, hallways are being removed.

Ditto Blocks - Added blocks that can copy the texture of other blocks, which allows us to give blocks different properties. One that was showcased was “Spring Blocks” which would have a trampoline like effect for the player. There is slight differentiation so you can tell the difference, they can be traps or be mined and used as a tool. “Trap Blocks” were also shown which disappear after a short time to drop the player below. There are also variations specifically to trigger on mob vs player. 

Build server - needs more rooms and more POI’s please fill out form in build section for room ideas, feedback on rooms, take note of the structures and the processor blocks that have code currently, if you need a special one make note of it and preferably also code it. There is a room section and a POI section, we need more thoughts/examples for both. 

## == Future ==

MVP SoonTM (internally goal is to have something by the end of the month). 

## == Q&A ==
No questions. 

## == Next meeting ==

Next week,  March 8 2025 Time: 8PM UTC